[TFECO-12319] API DOCS For Registry Tagging and Visibility (#2682)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/bulk-tagging.mdx

---
page_title: /tag-bindings/bulk-actions API reference for HCP Terraform
description: >-
  Use the HCP Terraform API's `/tag-bindings/bulk-actions` endpoints to add, remove, and set tags on registry artifacts in bulk and to check the status of a bulk tagging job.
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT

> created_at: 2026-07-14T15:10:30+02:00

Reviewer: Add : `tfc_only: true` (for visibility APIs)

last_modified: 2026-07-15T07:00:16.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

[200]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/200

[201]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/201

[202]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/202

[204]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/204

[400]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/400

[401]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/401

[403]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/403

[404]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/404

[409]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/409

[412]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/412

[422]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/422

[429]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/429

[500]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/500

[504]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/504

[JSON API document]: /terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs#json-api-documents

[JSON API error object]: https://jsonapi.org/format/#error-objects

> # Bulk tagging API reference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Bulk actions API reference
```
We should reference the name of the endpoint consistently so we don't confuse people. Ideally, each page takes the endpoint name as its title. The API docs IA is a bit inconsistent and messy, so I get that this isn't always possible.

> Use the bulk tagging endpoints to add, remove, or set tags on registry artifacts (modules, providers and components), in bulk. Instead of updating one artifact at a time, you submit a single request that targets many artifacts (of the same type) and applies one or more tags to each of them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call the `/bulk-actions` endpoints to add, remove, or set tags on registry artifacts, such as modules, providers, and Stacks components, in a single request. 
```
Similar to the comment on the title, we want to refer to the endpoint name in a consistent way.

> ## Requirements and constraints

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Requirements
```
We probably don't need to split hairs on what's a 'requirement' and what's a 'constraint'.

> The bulk tagging endpoints enforce the following constraints:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To successfully call the endpoints:
```

- All target resources must be the same type. For example, you cannot modify a registry module and a registry provider in the same request.
- All target resources must reside in the same organization. Even if you have access to more than one organization, you cannot update artifacts in different organizations in the same request.

> - If you attempt to update an artifact that you do not have permission to modify, HCP Terraform modifies no resources. Either all artifacts are updated, or none are.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You must have permission to all artifacts you are attempting to update in the request. If the request includes an artifact that you don't have permission to access, HCP Terraform won't update any of the artifacts.
```
Just to be clear, the request won't fail, correct? The data just won't be modified?

## Add tags in bulk

`POST /api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/add`

> Adds the specified tags to the target artifacts. If a target already contains a tag, then HCP Terraform ignores that tag for that target.

Reviewer 2: Just to be clear, we mean that if a target artifact is already tagged with the key/value pair you are trying to apply in bulk then HCP won't attach a duplicate tag, correct? Or do we mean that the target artifact won't accept any of the tags in the request? Does it look for the k/v pair or just the key?

          {
            "id": "mod-Ofmdsjng3dY8P",
            "type": "registry-modules"
          }
        ]
      },
      "tag-bindings": {
        "data": [
          {
            "type": "tag-bindings",
            "attributes": {
              "key": "DEPT",
              "value": "ENG"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample request

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/add
```

### Sample response

HCP Terraform validates and authorizes the payload, schedules the action, and returns a unique job ID and polling URL that you can use to determine when the job completes and the result of the job.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-wP2UDHA24HH",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "pending",
      "action": "add",
      "target-type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/398"
    }
  }
}
```

## Remove tags in bulk

`POST /api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/remove`

> Removes the specified tags from the target artifacts. If a target does not contain a tag, then HCP Terraform ignores that tag for that target.

Reviewer 2: Clarify per the comment at line 61.

    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "pending",
      "action": "add",
      "target-type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/400"
    }
  }
}
```

## Error responses

When you process changes in bulk, one or more resources might fail to update. In this case, HCP Terraform sends an HTTP error code with a JSON API error payload for each failure. When HCP Terraform returns an error response, it modifies no artifacts.

An HTTP [400][] response occurs when the request is badly formatted. For example, the request is missing required relationships, contains bad data types, or fails to comply with the resource and organization requirements.

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "400",
      "title": "bad request",
      "detail": "Missing targets relationship",
      "source": {
        "pointer": "/data/relationships"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Get a bulk tagging job status

`GET api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/:id`

| Parameter | Description                            |
| --------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `:id`     | The ID of the bulk action job to read. |

> After HCP Terraform schedules a bulk action job, query this endpoint to get the status and result of the job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

After HCP Terraform schedules a bulk action job, query the following endpoint to get the status and result of the job:

`GET api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/:id`

| Parameter | Description                            |
| --------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `:id`     | The ID of the bulk action job to read. |

### Response codes
```
It's clearer if the description of what the endpoint does introduces it

        "mod-ntUw7VH1a2WNNoMy",
        "mod-7Ecnpevu8A6TGnhB"
      ]
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/400"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample response: errored

HCP Terraform sends this response when a job has completed and encountered one or more errors during processing.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-WKZBbsFkTExqosLi",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "errored",
      "errors": {
        "mod-gxuxGdrprxrAPqU7": "cannot have more than 10 tags"
      },
      "targets": [
        "mod-gxuxGdrprxrAPqU7",
        "mod-oegt7LFC2yAw6ZJu"
      ],
      "target_type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/bulktagging-WKZBbsFkTExqosLi"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample response: pending

HCP Terraform sends this response when a job has yet to complete.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-5EbPPFG5Qng198RT",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "pending",
      "action": "add",
      "target-type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/400"
    }
  }
}

> 

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
### Sample responses

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Completed">

HCP Terraform sends this response when a job has completed and all targets were processed successfully.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-5EbPPFG5Qng198RT",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "completed",
      "action": "add",
      "target-type": "registry-modules",
      "targets": [
        "mod-ntUw7VH1a2WNNoMy",
        "mod-7Ecnpevu8A6TGnhB"
      ]
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/400"
    }
  }
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Errored">

HCP Terraform sends this response when a job has completed and encountered one or more errors during processing.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-WKZBbsFkTExqosLi",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "errored",
      "errors": {
        "mod-gxuxGdrprxrAPqU7": "cannot have more than 10 tags"
      },
      "targets": [
        "mod-gxuxGdrprxrAPqU7",
        "mod-oegt7LFC2yAw6ZJu"
      ],
      "target_type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/bulktagging-WKZBbsFkTExqosLi"
    }
  }
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Pending">

HCP Terraform sends this response when a job has yet to complete.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-5EbPPFG5Qng198RT",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "pending",
      "action": "add",
      "target-type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/400"
    }
  }
}

```

</Tab>

</Tabs>
````
To fit our organizational principles, the alternative could be something like:

```
### Sample responses

The following examples show different responses.

#### Completed
. . .
```

| [201][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "tag-binding-bulk-actions"`) | Successfully scheduled the bulk action job                         |
| [400][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | Malformed request body, such as missing relationships or bad types |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | User not authorized to modify one or more target artifacts         |

### Request body

This POST endpoint requires a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

| Key path                                                  | Type   | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `data.type`                                               | string |         | Must be `"bulk-tagging-actions"`.                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: I think the data.type is `tag-binding-bulk-actions`?

Author: You are right. I just double checked again.
<img width="311" height="100" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f48a9811-ce9d-4484-83bd-dcf785808fdd" />

| [201][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "tag-binding-bulk-actions"`) | Successfully scheduled the bulk action job                         |
| [400][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | Malformed request body, such as missing relationships or bad types |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | User not authorized to modify one or more target artifacts         |

### Request body

This endpoint uses the same request body as the [add tags in bulk](#add-tags-in-bulk) endpoint.

Properties without a default value are required.

| Key path                                                  | Type   | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `data.type`                                               | string |         | Must be `"bulk-tagging-actions"`.                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: fix here as well to `tag-binding-bulk-actions`

| `data.relationships.tag-bindings.data[].type`             | string |         | Must be `"tag-bindings"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `data.relationships.tag-bindings.data[].attributes.key`   | string |         | The key of the tag to remove.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `data.relationships.tag-bindings.data[].attributes.value` | string |         | **Optional.** The value of the tag to remove.                                                                                                                                                                             |

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "data": {

>     "type": "bulk-tagging-actions",

Reviewer: fix to `tag-binding-bulk-actions`

| [201][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "tag-binding-bulk-actions"`) | Successfully scheduled the bulk action job                         |
| [400][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | Malformed request body, such as missing relationships or bad types |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | User not authorized to modify one or more target artifacts         |

### Request body

This endpoint uses the same request body as the [add tags in bulk](#add-tags-in-bulk) endpoint.

Properties without a default value are required.

| Key path                                                  | Type   | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `data.type`                                               | string |         | Must be `"bulk-tagging-actions"`.                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer: fix to `tag-binding-bulk-actions`

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "400",
      "title": "bad request",
      "detail": "Missing targets relationship",
      "source": {
        "pointer": "/data/relationships"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Get a bulk tagging job status

`GET api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/:id`

| Parameter | Description                            |
| --------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `:id`     | The ID of the bulk action job to read. |

After HCP Terraform schedules a bulk action job, query this endpoint to get the status and result of the job.

| Status  | Response                                                   | Reason                                               |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| [200][] | [JSON API document][] (`type: "tag-binding-bulk-actions"`) | The request was successful                           |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][]                                  | Job not found or user not authorized to read the job |

> ### Bulk action response fields

Reviewer: nit: For /GET API calls we usually dont show a tabular response field format ( Bulk action response fields), maybe we can remove this section for consistency with other APIs?

    "attributes": {
      "status": "completed",
      "action": "add",
      "target-type": "registry-modules",
      "targets": [
        "mod-ntUw7VH1a2WNNoMy",
        "mod-7Ecnpevu8A6TGnhB"
      ]
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/400"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample response: errored

HCP Terraform sends this response when a job has completed and encountered one or more errors during processing.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-WKZBbsFkTExqosLi",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "errored",
      "errors": {
        "mod-gxuxGdrprxrAPqU7": "cannot have more than 10 tags"
      },
      "targets": [
        "mod-gxuxGdrprxrAPqU7",
        "mod-oegt7LFC2yAw6ZJu"
      ],
      "target_type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/bulktagging-WKZBbsFkTExqosLi"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample response: pending

HCP Terraform sends this response when a job has yet to complete.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-5EbPPFG5Qng198RT",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "pending",

>       "action": "add",

Reviewer: why dont we have `targets` here?

            "id": "mod-Ofmdsjng3dY8P",
            "type": "registry-modules"
          }
        ]
      },
      "tag-bindings": {
        "data": [
          {
            "type": "tag-bindings",
            "attributes": {
              "key": "DEPT",
              "value": "ENG"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample request

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request POST \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/set
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "id": "bulktagging-5fsdWRFg198RT",
    "type": "tag-binding-bulk-actions",
    "attributes": {
      "status": "pending",
      "action": "add",
      "target-type": "registry-modules"
    },
    "links": {
      "self": "/api/v2/tag-bindings/bulk-actions/400"
    }
  }
}
```

## Error responses

When you process changes in bulk, one or more resources might fail to update. In this case, HCP Terraform sends an HTTP error code with a JSON API error payload for each failure. When HCP Terraform returns an error response, it modifies no artifacts.

> An HTTP [400][] response occurs when the request is badly formatted. For example, the request is missing required relationships, contains bad data types, or fails to comply with the resource and organization requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An HTTP [400][] response occurs when the request is malformed. For example, the request is missing required relationships, contains bad data types, or fails to comply with the resource and organization requirements.
```
Hehe, as opposed to when its only formatted a little bit.
